An emperor may build the highest tower;
the Chao is the sky above him.
A worker may toil on the field;
the Chao is the earth beneath his feet.
The Chao is both high and low,
and so transcends both.
                -- 1.  confronting the Chao
                    Chao Te Ching
%
NO FLYING FISH
%
The Chao is the highest peak of a mountain;
yet even the elderly can reach it.
The Chao is a road stretching a thousand miles;
yet even a cripple can traverse it.
The Chao is the wisdom that comes with a hundred lifetimes;
yet even an infant can comprehend it.
The Chao is guarded like an emperor's treasures;
yet even the poorest already hold it.
The Chao is an elephant in a marketplace;
impossible to miss, it eludes our sight.
                -- 2. attaining the impossible
                  Chao Te Ching
%
There are twenty-six letters;
but their combinations are endless.
The cycle of sun and moon is unchanging;
yet our days are always new.
Bricks are stacked to form a house;
where both fool and emperor may live.
Thus the body of the world is Order,
but its soul is Chaos.
              -- 3. the soul of the world
                Chao Te Ching
%
Disprove the Chao
and you will not prove anything.
Seek the Chao
and you will find nothing.
Catch the Chao
and your hand will come up empty:
this is the path of the witless.
But understand the Chao
and you will know nothing:
this is the path of the sage.
              -- 4. contents of an empty cup
                Chao Te Ching
%
NO WATERCOLOR FLOWERS
%
A man who knows everything has learnt nothing.
A bowl full of water is impossible to move; a sack full of grain becomes hard
and inflexible. How badly then does a mind that is filled with conviction cope
with change?
How pretentious is a man who claims to know the ways of Earth and
Heavens! How foolish a man who says he knows Truth! A man who expects
no miracles will find none. Ears that are open to only one explanation are deaf
to the world.
A man who hoards knowledge has gained nothing.
A clay pot may hold rice this day and water the next, but a thing locked away
in it will grow no fresher. Will a mind that allows no fresh thoughts then not
fester and rot?
The sage collects, but gives away freely; is confident, but always surprised. A
mind with a single viewpoint is like a man trapped in a room with but one
window. Though his eyes may see for miles, he is blind to the world.
              -- 5. the worth of convictions
                Chao Te Ching
%
Creation and Destruction, Chaos and Order; these are the four daughters of the
Chao.
Like the great wheels of heaven they are endless -
Creation walks two steps behind Destruction; Destruction two steps behind
her. Chaos follows Order; Order springs from Chaos. Creation holds both
Chaos and Order; both Chaos and Order can lead to Destruction.
Thus, they are four, but two. Two, but one.
              -- 6. the Chao embodied
                  Chao Te Ching
%
The frog straddles the ground,
the sparrow soars through the skies.
This is the way of the world.
But when the spring storms come
the frog will be lifted into the skies;
the sparrow slammed to the ground.
The way of the world is changed.
To know the Chao
is to embrace the storm.
The sparrow lands;
the frog flies.
              -- 7. embracing the storm
                Chao Te Ching
%
A man does not rule because he is king;
he is king because he rules.
A man does not toil because he is a farmer;
he is a farmer because he toils.
A man is not wise because he is a sage;
he is a sage because he is wise.
What use has the sage for titles?
What value does he place on them?
When the Chao passes,
it lifts up that which is low
and brings down that which is high.
              -- 8. the quality of ambition
                Chao Te Ching
%
Stillness is the root of movement, silence the base for all sound. Without
darkness, there is no sense of light. Thus all things are formed by their
opposite; defined by that which they are not. The darker a room, the brighter a
flame will seem. The more one values silence, the more deafening sound will
be to their ears. Silence breeds sound; stillness begets movement; madness
confers reason.
To value one over the other is pointless. To oppress something is only to
invite it more. To impose order is to escalate chaos.
              -- 9. halting the river's flow
                Chao Te Ching
%
ROCKS AND TREES AND SHIT
%
An Emperor commands many armies;
he cannot hold the Chao.
An Alchemist unlocks the secrets of the world;
the Chao eludes him.
A Prince has gold in abundance;
the Chao will never be his.
A Fool dances and shouts at the skies;
the Chao is in his footsteps.
            -- 10. the mystery revealed
              Chao Te Ching
%
Scholars of the highest class, when they hear about the Chao, earnestly carry it
into practice. They are misguided; the Chao is not a set of rules and guidelines
that can be followed. Scholars of the middle class, when they have heard
about it, seem now to keep it and now to lose it. They are deluded; the Chao,
when truly seen, can neither be lost or kept. Scholars of the lowest class, when
they have heard about it, laugh greatly at it. They are fools; for though the
Chao that cannot be laughed at is not the true Chao, neither should it be
dismissed as a mere joke.
The sage walks the path of the Chao by not following it;
strives neither to keep nor lose it;
laughs at it in all seriousness.
            -- 11. eluding understanding
              Chao Te Ching
%

            -- 12. you are free
              Chao Te Ching
%
My path to the Chao is clear and free of thorns;
but if you set foot on it, you will be lost in the thicket.
My view of the Chao is open and unhindered;
but if you look, a hundred trees will block your sight.
My road to the Chao is short and easily trodden;
but if you take it, it will lead you across mountains.
My bridge to the Chao is strong and holds my weight;
but if you cross it, you will fall into the stream.
The way is like the thin ice of earliest winter;
only a fool would cross it twice.
            -- 13. only closed doors can be opened
              Chao Te Ching
%
14. stepping without a footprint
Shall we now discuss
practicing the art of the Chao?
A single pebble placed correctly
can alter the flow of a river.
A single word spoken timely
can begin or avert a war.
Thus can a single motion
change the course of the heavens.
The Chao flows like the very air;
always present, it is impossible to hold.
The Chao moves like the streams of time;
it changes all things, but cannot be seen.
The sage
changes without touching
preaches without conviction
sways without oppression.
            -- 14. stepping without a footprint
              Chao Te Ching
%
There is but one Chao
but men
name it five.
            -- 15. infinity numbered
              Chao Te Ching
%
A man sits in the afternoon sun.
His body relaxes, his mind clears;
the troubles of the world cannot touch him.
In doing nothing, he has accomplished much.
A man runs pointless errands for a foolish master.
His body is tense, his mind races;
the troubles of the world seem only to multiply.
In doing many things, he accomplishes nothing.
To know the Chao
is to sit in the sun
and yet accomplish all.
            -- 16. the quality of stillness
              Chao Te Ching
%
An unskilled jester mocks the Emperor with flights of fancy.
Will this mockery based on lies not be met with great displeasure?
A skilled jester mocks the Emperor with hidden thruths.
Is his mockery not tolerated, though it stings all the harder?
A good jest is like a clear lake;
it reflects and holds no shadows.
A good parody is like a portrait;
it is lifeless unless the essence is captured.
Thus are the greatest truths found in jest, and the greatest lies in seriousness.
A man bows deep for the Emperor. Does the man show respect for his lord, or
is he simply afraid to be executed? His true heart is hidden. A soldier marches
to war. Is his wish to die for his generals, or does he blindly follow orders?
His true heart is closed. A son obeys his fathers' dying wishes. Is it out of
love, or has the inheritance gripped him with greed? His true heart is
unknown.
A man laughs at the show of a puppeteer. What else can be in his heart than
joy? His true heart is open for all to see.
Thus is honesty found in laughter, and deceit in soberness.
              -- 17. the genuine influence
                Chao Te Ching
%
It is man's way to make rules and laws. He divides time into
hours; gives names and labels to
 all things upon this earth; he
measures and gives titles; catalogues and formulates.
The true Chao cannot be named. The Chao cannot be numbered
or divided. No formula describes it, no title or label can pin it
down. The Chao flows through all we see; its very being a
mockery of man's most skillful laws.
              -- 18. trapping the ocean
                Chao Te Ching
%
The Chao courses the night sky.
As lightning it touches the earth.
The people gather and watch;
they believe they have seen the Chao.
The Chao shakes the ground.
An earthquake is its guise.
The people gather and watch;
they believe they have seen the Chao.
The Chao roars and twists.
As a river it comes into the valley.
The people gather and watch;
they believe they have seen the Chao.
The sage sees the Chao in thunder, earthquake and river;
but refuses to seek it there.
              -- 19. striking the dragon's tail
                Chao Te Ching
%
May we not compare our life on earth
to a theatre where actors play?
We enter the stage naked;
but along our way we find costumes and masks,
strewn across the stage.
Fearing their nakedness,do not most men
cling to tightly to their costume?
Think their mask their true self?
They are neither wise nor foolish;
emperors and beggars both are among their number.
The wise man wears his costume,
but is still naked underneath.
He can wear a thousand masks
yet remain himself.
              -- 20. the face of eternity
                Chao Te Ching
%
Hold a brush and you are a craftsman; create and you are an
Artist. Sit upon a throne and you are a monarch; rule and you are
a King. Hold a distinction and you are an officer; inspire and you
are a General.
A true Emperor has no need for clothes. A true leader desires no
followers. The most worthy are those who have no wish for
titles. The wisest of men think themselves fools.
              -- 21. sameness and difference
                Chao Te Ching
%
The truth of my Chao is like purest gold,
but men think it muddied copper.
The wisdom of my Chao is deep as the ocean,
but men think it a mere stream.
The spirit of my Chao is pure as diamond,
but men think it base and dull.
It is good that they think of it so.
A sage who seems to have no wisdom
is only sought out
by those truly willing to listen.
              -- 22. the open gate unbreached
                Chao Te Ching
%
Words cannot pin down the Chao,
paper and ink cannot hold it.
Thus one cannot write about the Chao;
one can only have written about it.
A tongue cannot speak of the Chao,
the wisest of sages cannot name it.
It is not possible to speak of the Chao;
only to have spoken of it.
A man's actions do not speak of the Chao,
it cannot be found in his footsteps.
We can only see if a man walks with the Chao
after his footsteps have faded.
I cannot teach the nature of the Chao,
my words cannot describe it.
Thus you will see the nature of the Chao
only after you've rejected my teachings.
              -- 23. forgetting knowledge
                Chao Te Ching
%
