Beauty fades.  Dumb is forever.
	- Judge Judith Sheindlin
%
Bludgeoning.  Bludgeoning is key.
%
If you get a penny for your thoughts, but put your two cents worth in, someone is making money.
%
Test-driven development is the act of debugging nothing until a program appears.
%
"An Ode to Spam"
By Erwin

I quiver at an early hour.
Awash in electron aura:
Debating life and godly power.
And staring at Eudora.

What is all my mail worth?
Do I risk my mind?
What if *spam* should issue forth.
And leave my soul behind?

And thus beside this stream of life.
From whence my mail is plucked;
I decide within my inner strife,
That spammers should be...
%
Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon filled with magtape.
%
In the beginning was the plan,
       and then the specification;
And the plan was without form,
       and the specification was void.

And darkness
       was on the faces of the implementors thereof;
And they spake unto their leader,
       saying:
It is a crock of shit,
       and smells as of a sewer.

And the leader took pity on them,
       and spoke to the project leader:
It is a crock of excrement,
       and none may abide the odor thereof.

And the project leader
       spake unto his section head, saying:
It is a container of excrement,
       and it is very strong, such that none may abide it.

The section head then hurried to his department manager,
       and informed him thus:
It is a vessel of fertilizer,
       and none may abide its strength.

The department manager carried these words
      to his general manager,
and spoke unto him
      saying:
It containeth that which aideth the growth of plants,
      and it is very strong.

And so it was that the general manager rejoiced
      and delivered the good news unto the Vice President.
It promoteth growth,
      and it is very powerful.

The Vice President rushed to the President's side,
      and joyously exclaimed:
This powerful new software product
      will promote the growth of the company!

And the President looked upon the product,
      and saw that it was very good.
%
"The only thing worse than a process with no automation is a process with bad automation."
		--Eric S. Raymond (in a roundabout way)
%
Jesus Christ: saver of souls, scrambler of eggs.
%
A novice was trying to fix a broken Lisp machine by turning the power off and on.

Knight, seeing what the student was doing, spoke sternly: "You cannot fix a machine by just power-cycling it with no understanding of what is going wrong."

Knight turned the machine off and on.

The machine worked.
		--Tom Knight and the Lisp Machine
%
One day a student came to Moon and said: "I understand how to make a better garbage collector. We must keep a reference count of the pointers to each cons."

Moon patiently told the student the following story:

    "One day a student came to Moon and said: ‘I understand how to make a better garbage collector...

[Ed. note: Pure reference-count garbage collectors have problems with circular structures that point to themselves.]
		--Moon instructs a student
%
In the days when Sussman was a novice, Minsky once came to him as he sat hacking at the PDP-6.

"What are you doing?", asked Minsky.

"I am training a randomly wired neural net to play Tic-Tac-Toe" Sussman replied.

"Why is the net wired randomly?", asked Minsky.

"I do not want it to have any preconceptions of how to play", Sussman said.

Minsky then shut his eyes.

"Why do you close your eyes?", Sussman asked his teacher.

"So that the room will be empty."

At that moment, Sussman was enlightened.
		--Sussman attains enlightenment
%
A disciple of another sect once came to Drescher as he was eating his morning meal.

"I would like to give you this personality test", said the outsider, "because I want you to be happy."

Drescher took the paper that was offered him and put it into the toaster, saying: "I wish the toaster to be happy, too."
		--Drescher and the toaster
%

    It is recorded that once, when Master Foo was iterating along a beach, he came upon two of his disciples arguing by a computer processor.
    "It is subtracting positive 1", declared the first.
    "No; it is adding negative 1", asserted the other.
    Master Foo answered them thus: "Not incrementing, not decrementing -- Equalizing!" whereupon both were enlightened.

        (Derived from "Huineng's flag", Case 29, The Gateless Gate.)

%
Think for yourself, schmuck!
%
No one wants to get punched in the face, but sometimes it happens.
%
every program can be shortened by at least one instruction, and every program contains at least one more undetected bug. therefore, any program can be reduced to one instruction which doesn't work.
		-- IceKarma's Law of Software Development
%
Give me a stream to grep and with xargs I will move the world.
%
Never argue with well-armed crazy people.
%
Cows optimize locally, not globally.
		-- danch, on paving cow paths
%
Modernization is messy.
		-- Mark Panthofer
%
The flow of time is not agile, but the flow of money is painfully so.
		-- Joshua Armstrong, on project budgeting
%
Where there's a will to get blowjobs, there's a way to obtain them.
		-- Taylor Armstrong
%
You are not the system you're designing.
		-- danch
%
Abstraction is selective ignorance.
		-- Andrew Koenig
